GENERAL WORKFLOW INFORMATION

Raw Salad is a web application aimed to enhance the every day work of public
officers, journalists, NGOs etc. by providing a standard and simple access to
public data. Design of the software is focused on providing a clear and
effective workflow that can easily fit into a wider context of the user's actual
work. In this sense Raw Salad is not meant as a place of work itself, but only
as one of tools in everyday dutes of the end user. This perspective is
represented by several machanisms like Rich Download, premalinks or IFrames -
they all let the user take interesting information out of the application and
use it efficiently on other platforms, be it spreadsheet, email, blog or a
social network profile. In this sense Raw Salad helps to find and understand
public data for users who want to use it everyday work.

Website hosting a Raw Salad application is divided into two semanticaly
different parts:
    - portal containing a main page, experts blog, knowladge database,
      documentation etc.
    - application itself
This documentation provides information only about the Raw Salad application.


THREE PARTS OF THE WORKFLOW
The basic workflow of Raw Salad is highly linear and consists of three
successive parts: Choose, Browse and Understand. This is the only way of working
with the application and no short-cuts omitting any of the parts are provided.
However users can download or share interesting information (be it data itself
or visualizations) on each stage without breaking the workflow. Each of these
parts (Choose, Browse, Understand) is represented by a single web page
simplifing interaction by keeping different parts of the workflow separate and
reducing a number of web page reloads.


DATA ON DEMAND
One of the main ideas incorporated in the application design is the Data On
Demand approach. From the user point of view that means that no data are
provided to the user unless she or he directly demands it. E.g. if the user is
interested in health-care part of the budget, military spends are not provided
until s/he directly demands it. This will allow us to achieve two goals:
    * user is never overloaded with data s/he didn't want to see and work with
    * the system can make a heavy use of asynchronous database requests making
      the web site more efficient and user experience much more responsive
      (possibly no data download lags).
Data On Demand approach is further on incorporated in Rich Download
functionality (for details: see below) that lets the user choose exactly what
part of data (all data in data-set or just some selected positions) s/he wants
to download.


SNAPSHOTS/VIEWS
One of the key functionalities in Raw Salad are snapshots (also called the
views). It's mainly present in Browse and Understand parts of the application.
Snapshots let the user save some view for a latter use. That means that when the
user browse some data-set and finds some interesting parts of it, s/he can save
this view as a snapshot, browse some more and come back to previous view with
just one click. As there is no limit in number of snapshots, this become an
effective way of dealing with data. What's more, snapshots is what the user
take from Browse to Understand part of the application. All in all it gives
the user a clear way of interacting with Raw Salad:
    1. choose some data-set (e.g. National budget)
    2. choose a perspective (e.g task-oriented budget) (see below: CHOOSE)
    3. browse for some interesting data
    4. select data of interest
    5. save a snapshot
    6. repeat 3-5 steps as many times you like
    7. take the snapshots to visualizer to better understand data


RICH DOWNLOAD
Another feature present across the application is Rich Download functionality.
In every part of the workflow user can download the data of interest. This is
split into three basic options:
    * download all data in the data-set
    * download selected data with its basic context i.e. the data being on
      the same level of data structure, but not selected by the use
    * download only data of interest i.e. only data selected by user (see below
      in BROWSE section)
Rich download will let the user work off-line in her or his favorite environment
 (e.g. spreadsheet application, statistic tool-kit) and choose, how much data
she or he needs for that.



PARTS OF THE WORKFLOW

CHOOSE
In this view user is presented with a list of available data-sets. Each position
in the list represents a single time independent data-set. That means that Raw
Salad works on the structures of the data-sets instead of specific data,
allowing to combine different issues of data in the same data-set (e.g. national
budget data-set contains budgets for years 2010, 2011 and 2012).After choosing
one of the data-sets more information and options are provided. Additional
information include: data-set description, links to data sources (e.g. Ministry
of Finance for National Budget), legal status of data etc. Additional options
include: download button and perspective switch.
The perspective switch allows user to choose the way data will be shown for her
or him in the data browser. The switch consists of two lists of perspectives:
    * structures (obligatory for all data-sets): the basic raw data access point
      providing fundamental data structures as a browser. E.g. Nation Budget
      structures could be task-oriented budget or institutional budget, Local
      Elections structures could be territorial structure
    * questions (or stories about data): some predefined perspectives on a
      data-set that could be helpful to answer some questions (or to tell some
      story about data). E.g. National Budget questions could be "National to EU
      money in the budget", Local Elections question could be "Women to men in
      local elections". All the questions are prepared by the experts.
Both structures and question (stories about data) give access to all the data
in the data-set. The main difference between them is that the questions give
the user easy access to some aggregations of data not included in raw structural
view.
To move on from the Choose view to the Browse view user has to choose one of
the perspectives.

BROWSE
The BROWSE part is the view where user is provided with a direct access to data
in the classic tabular way. The difference is that data in the table will be
hierarchical and the dable itself will be a navigation tool for the data
collection. (to be continued)


UNDERSTAND
In this version of Raw Salad Understand part consists only of the visualizer.
In future though a simple statistical tool will be incorporated. Both tools will
implement only the basic functionality to let the users better understand data
of they interest.
